<!-- [comment]: <> (DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE. EDIT THE TEMPLATE "templates/dox/BUILD.md.scion") -->
# How to build MulleObjC


## What you get

* `libMulleObjC.a` the mulle-concurrent static library along with a
bunch of headers. Also a standalone shared library is built, which is useful
for testing.


## Prerequisites

#### mulle-clang

[mulle-clang](//github.com/codeon-gmbh/mulle-clang/) is the compiler neede
to compile MulleObjC.


#### mulle-objc-runtime

[mulle-objc-runtime](//github.com/mulle-nat/mulle-objc-runtime/)
is the Objective-C runtime MulleObjC is bases upon. It comes with its own set
of prerequisites.

#### mulle-configuration

[mulle-configuration](//github.com/mulle-nat/mulle-configuration/)
are configuration files for building with Xcode or cmake. This is expected to
exist in the project directory root.



## Nice to have

#### mulle-build

[mulle-build](//github.com/mulle-nat/mulle-build) is used
to assemble the dependencies together and build the library.

#### mulle-tests

[mulle-tests](//github.com/mulle-nat/mulle-tests/) are
scripts to provide an environment for running the tests. This is expected to
exist in `./tests`, if you want to run tests.


### Windows: Installing further prerequisites

Check the [mulle-build README.md](//github.com/mulle-nat/mulle-build/README.md)
for instructions how to get the "Git for Windows" bash going.


### OSX: Install mulle-build using homebrew

Install the [homebrew](//brew.sh/) package manager, then

```
brew tap mulle-kybernetik/software
brew install mulle-build
```

### Linux: Install mulle-build using linuxbrew

Install the [linuxbrew](//linuxbrew.sh/) package manager, then it seems you
may need `python-setuptools` dependency as well:

```
sudo apt-get install python-setuptools
```

and then

```
brew install mulle-kybernetik/software/mulle-build
```

### All: Install mulle-build using git

```
git clone --branch release https://github.com/mulle-nat/mulle-bootstrap
( cd mulle-bootstrap ; ./install.sh )
git clone --branch release https://github.com/mulle-nat/mulle-build
( cd mulle-build ; ./install.sh )
```

## All: Install mulle-concurrent using mulle-build


Grab the latest **mulle-concurrent** release and go into the project directory:

```
git clone --branch release https://github.com/mulle-nat/mulle-concurrent.git
cd mulle-concurrent
```

Then let **mulle-build** fetch the dependencies and
build **mulle-concurrent** in debug mode:

```
mulle-build --debug
```

Build library in release mode and install into `tmp` :

```
mulle-clean ;
mulle-install --prefix /tmp
```
